One of the most frequent operations we're
likely to perform in our stream processing applications
is to combine or join multiple streams into one output stream.
In this section, we're going to see how KSQL makes this process
painless with simple SQL join syntax.
In this example, we're joining our username stream to our purchases stream,
producing a new output stream based on the shared key attribute username.
This is one of the more common use cases for joining in stream processing.
It's fairly frequent that we want to enrich
one data source with information from one or more other data sources.
KSQL supports full left outer joints,
as well as inner joints.
This example is a good place to pause and
discuss some of the requirements for joining in KSQL.
If the streams that are being joined are not co-partitioned,
meaning they don't share the same key,
we can't join these streams.
The key that we choose to use in KSQL must also
match the key for our messages in the Kafka topic.
So again, if both purchases and users didn't share the username key attribute,
we would have to co-partition these streams to do this join.
This doesn't mean we can't join the tables or streams
we're interested in if they're not co-partitioned,
it simply means we have to re-partition our data so that a join is possible.
To re-partition one or more streams for a join,
you can use a group by to create
an intermediate stream that is appropriately co- partitioned for the join.
Again, another note I want to make before we move on.
You can join tables to tables.
Again, table to table, stream to stream,
or stream to table,
but you cannot join tables to streams.
You also cannot perform a full outer join on streams to tables.
You may only perform left or inner joints.
Stream to stream joints may also be windowed, if you so desire,
following the same syntax as we saw earlier in the lesson.